Okay, so find candidates.
Hopefully we feel pretty good about that.
Let's look at the check function, which
was full of our previous implementation.
And I'm gonna do one of my favorite
things to do in all of programming.
Which is to delete it all.
[LAUGH] I don't know about you, but
I just love that visceral feeling.
We're gonna write more code in its place,
but
I love that visceral feeling
of getting to get rid of code.
So, the check function, this is the public
API method that's called on our module,
and in the check function,
we need to get those candidates.
So this is gonna be where we call,
we're gonna say candidates =
findCandidates for that input word.
And then we want to call another
function which is going to be
our recursive function which
I will call spellWord.
And we need to pass in the candidate for
it to use for this word,
and the word itself.
You might wonder why we're
passing in candidates,
as opposed to simply referencing
it as an outer variable.
It's simply to be a little
bit more appropriate.
We're not gonna modify candidates ever so
we don't have any mutation of that value.
But it is better to pass that along than
it is to reference an outer variable,
just again in terms of trying to reduce
the surface area of places where bugs
can occur.
So, what's left for us to do then
is to write the spellWord function.
We know that it takes the candidates.
And the inputWord and
you remember that its job is to return,
the worst case scenario if it
didn't find anything its job
is to return the empty array to indicate
that we were not able to find something.
So, how do we know that we
definitely can't find something?
This is called the base condition when
you do recursive programming you may have
heard that term base conditions before.
Turns out in this case it's pretty
straightforward to know what our base
condition is.
So rather than just having kind of like
a fall through return we can actually put
this in an affirmative if statement and
make the base condition
a bit more obvious.
Characters left,
we're gonna do a different thing
rather than passing in the inputWord,
we're just gonna have a counter down for
how many characters that we need to get.
So we'll explain that
here in just a minute.
Sorry, charsleft is the string,
the length of it is the count I keep
getting myself confused right there.
So, charsleft is what I wanna call it and
not length,
sorry I got confused between left and
length.
Okay, so if the count of
the characters left or the inputWord,
whatever parameter name
you wanted to give that.
If the count of those is down to 0,
then we're definitely sure that we've got
nothing else to do for this iteration, and
so we can simply return that empty array.
If there's more characters left,
then there's more work to do.
Now we said that we want to prefer or
prioritize to letter matches
over one letter matches.
Which is part of the reason why we
returned them at the beginning of that
candidates list, we want to prefer those.
And so what we're going to do is check for
those first, so
we're gonna say check for
two letters symbols first.
That can only happen if
the charsleft.length that is how many
characters we have left is at least 2.
So let's get the two left
most of those characters so
we'll say charsletf.slice (0,2).
That gets our next two
characters off of our string.
And let's just for convenience,
put the rest of them into another
variable called rest,
are we slice starting at position 2?
I got a typo here, charsleft.
[COUGH] So, if.
The candidates includes the two
that we just pulled off,
in other words,
is that one of our candidates?
If we had made it into a combined set,
then it would just be a.has call.
But here we, again,
just to imply the ordering,
we kept it as arrays here.
And then we can say if this is
similar to our previous condition,
we need to know whether or not we have
any more work to do after this match.
This was a match, so we could put a little
comment here we could say, found a match.
All right, so if we did find
the match now we need to know,
do we need to do more work or are we done?
Remember how we asked that same question
before and the way we asked it was,
is there anything left in the rest?
So we could say, if rest.length > 0
that means there's more work to do.
So far making sense?
Give me some thumbs up,
thumbs down, how are we feeling?
Or at least thumbs sideways.
Give me thumbs sideways.
Okay, I'll take it,
I'II take the thumbs sideways.
I gotta stop and
go back if I get a thumbs down, but
thumbs sideways we'll keep
trudging along [LAUGH].
Okay, so if the length > 0,
I think in the checked
in version of the repo I think I
have not equal to the empty string.
Either one of those checks is equivalent,
we're are saying is it,
not the empty string so
I'll just leave it as the length.
I think this one communicates
a little bit better.
If the length > 0, and then we'll say,
let's go ahead and make our recursive
calls similar to what we did before,
we're gonna say, let result = spellWord.
And we'll give it the candidates as is
whenever changing the candidates will give
you the candidates as is and
will give it whatever is left.
But what's left is rest
instead of charsleft.
If, what comes back from this call.
Is equal to what we were trying to match
then we can simply return the result.
So, there's join here is
joining an empty string.
Is joining whatever we passed in.
Careful, I think this should have been.
We'll check this in just a moment.
I might have a little bit of mistake here,
we'll check.
What comes back if there's
no more work to do?
That is this check fails
there's no more work to do,
then we know that we simply need to return
an array with only the element that.
Okay, so that takes care of looking for
our two character symbols and
you'll notice that we
are recursing in here and
we're recursing into the two
symbol options first.
So we'll be looking at all of our two
symbol options all the way down first.
As I'm thinking about this, I'm pretty
sure that I do have a slight mistake.
Although, the end result is still working,
but I'll go ahead and
call it out because I'm sure
somebody will eventually get this.
I am checking to see if what comes
back from spellWord is equal to my
current word.
Which means that spellWord has to go then
do that work a second time at each level.
So what I should have been doing
is checking to see if what
comes back from spellWord is rest,
and returning.
Returning to the ....result, like we did
in our first version of the solution,
either of those is going to end
up producing correct answers.
This one is gonna produce
a few less iterations.
In our case,
it's not gonna be that big of a problem.
So the other one is not
necessarily super wrong, but
it is doing unnecessary work so
I just make this little change.
So that's slightly different from
the code that you'll see in the repo.
Okay, so now we wanna check for
the one that are symbols.
And it's a very similar process.
We only wanna do this if charsleft is.
>=1.
It always should be because if it was 0 we
would have not even come into this branch.
But this is just doubly
making sure to communicate.
This is the one character symbols length.
Technically that if
statements not necessary.
Just trying to make code that
makes a little more sense here.
So we're gonna do the same thing
with the one as we did with the two.
Which is we'll let 1 = and
we'll get the characters charsleft at
position 0 the leftmost character.
We'll get the rest is = charsleft.slice.
Quick poll, do you say chars,
cars, characters?
What's the correct pronunciation?
I guess chars sounds best to me,
but I think I always like to say
chars as in characters, but
I think chars maybe is better.
I don't know, anyway, if,
let me scroll this down.
Candidates.includes (one).
So is the thing that we've just sliced off
the single character one of our one letter
candidates is it found
in the candidates list?
We can do the not equals to this or
I again above I kinda like the > 0.
Either way you wanna do that check.
I know how I got off track on the two
letter one, we'll go back and
fix this in a moment.
So, in the above one the way
that we did this was we said
let result = spellWord and
we did candidates.
Now I know how I got,
it was a copy paste here that got us off.
Okay, so we can do let result and
then we can say if result.join = chars,
we wanted to say rest,
return in this case,
we want to return one and
whatever came back in result.
And if we didn't have any work left to do,
one second I'll get to the question.
If we didn't have any work left to do,
then we would simply return one.
So those two if blocks, if you compare
them, they should look exactly the same
except one is doing it with
the two character candidates and
one's doing it with the one
character candidates.
But algorithmically they're
doing the same work.
Basically the question was, did
candidates really need to be in an array?
I mentioned earlier,
remember we had this discussion?
What if we'd done these with
sets instead of with arrays?
And I suggested to you that the choice for
the array,
there were multiple factors that
I put into that choice, right?
One of the reasons I put that into
that choice is that we want order,
and a set implies no order.
You with me?
So if I were to have done this with sets.
I would end up with two sets here, and
I could concatenate the two sets together,
which requires iterating
over the two sets and
then creating a new set
from their iteration.
There's no set append
operator in JavaScript.
You basically have to
drop down into arrays,
combine the two arrays together and
then produce it back into a set.
The way I'm using it is indeed as a set,
I am not actually going through
the candidates list in order.
So we don't technically need
the ordering to be preserved.
But what I was trying to
suggest here was that,
one of the factors for
me choosing an array over a set here
was that I wanted to
communicate ordering matters.
It is not the case that strictly speaking
the ordering in this array matters.
But overall order does matter and
in that case,
it is in fact the order of if statements.
The way that we go through it it's kind of
if you're thinking about traversing a tree
you go down the left branch versus the
right branch you are gonna get a different
traversal.
We're going down the two branch versus
the one branch that's gonna give us
the ordering that we
want in our recursion.
If I had made these as sets,
I think it communicates when somebody's
reading fine candidates that ordering
doesn't matter to the candidates.
And it would be harder to spot that
the if statements are what's applying
the ordering.
So that was one of the reasons
why I chose the array.
The other reason I chose the array is
because I know that JavaScript cannot
concatenate two sets together without
dropping it back into an array.
Which is slightly more expensive, not
a big deal, but slightly more expensive.
Whereas with these arrays, the ...array
concatenation is very highly optimized.
So to be honest with you,
it's kind of 50, 50.
It is not the case that have we chosen
sets that would have been wrong and
if you had preferred sets here probably
would have gotten a perfectly fine answer.
The final impact of all of this or
the final kind of swaying point for me,
was the candidates is never more than
a half dozen, maybe a dozen entries total.
For any word that you type in,
which means that the array includes is
going to be just as fast as a set house.
So we're not really losing any
performance by making this choice, and
I felt it was a slightly better one but
it's entirely reasonable that you
might have chosen to do it with sets.
Hopefully that answers the question
more fully than I had answered before.